# Class XX: Topic

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What native Node.js module allows us to get started with Event Driven Programming?

> EventEmitter, or even EventEmitter2 or EventEmitter3.

- What is the value of Object Oriented Programming used in tandem with Event Driven Programming?

> It allows for objects to trigger off of an array of specific behaviors, it allows object to trigger off of other objects doing ONE thing, rather than any object reaching into another object to trigger an event.  

- Consider your knowledge of Event Driven Programming in the Web Browser, now explain to a non-technical friend how Event Driven Programming might be useful on the backend using Node.js.

> The example sounds weird, but this is the friends I have.  If you're playing an online game that uses mines, there's usually two kinds: remote detonated and proximity detonated.  The thing blows up when triggered remotely, or it triggers when an external condition is fulfilled.  Regular object oriented programming can only do the remote detonation: some manual process triggers it, one device to another.  Event driven triggers off of a condition, like pressure or proximity.  It allows for the object you actually want to take action (the mine) trigger off of a preset condition rather than a remote action.

Additional Questions

- Looking ahead at this module’s course schedule, What do you look forward to learning?

> Whiteboarding practice.  It's where I'm weakest for sure.

- What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

> I'd like to get a lot more comfortable with failure while also increasing the pace of my learning and output.

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 0905: Technical whiteboarding warmup and practice.

- Technical whiteboarding is a **5 part process**.
  1. Paraphrase the problem domain.
    - State/restate the problem domain to the interviewer.
    - Ask a question about every piece of jargon.
    - This is all very much active listening skills.
  2. Visualize the process.
    - Draw/diagram the problem as you understand it.
    - The purpose is to identify details.
  3. Identify edge cases and test cases.
    - Change up the inputs and assumptions
    - Identify at least one thing that may change or break the approach you want.
  4. Write out an algorithm.
    - It's like the laundry list of what we want to happen.  Write out how a list is traversed or what have you.
  5. Write out your psuedocode or code.  Pick one.

  - 1030: Learning about state/stateless design.  

  - 1114: using state with event emitters

  - 

##### Things I want to know more about

- Swapping two nodes in a linked list, given both nodes.