# Class 12: Socket.io

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is a Web Socket?

> A communications protocol that's distinct from HTTP but still dependent on TCP connection.  It can connect web services and it supports full-duplex communications, and is supported by most modern browsers.

- Describe the Web Socket request/response handshake and what happens once the connection is established.

> The connection switches over from HTTP to websocket once the connection is established and becomes bidirectional.  Upgrade headers are sent, plus a hashed websocket key.  Client and server can then send WebSocket data back and forth in full-duplex (simultaneously, or without receiving a request).  Very low overhead, with a small header followed by payload.  

- Web Sockets provide a standardized way for the server to send content to a client without first receiving a ____ from that client.

> Request

- What does the event handler io.on() do?

> io.on is the event handler method built into socket.io.  It handles connection/disconnection events on the socket object.

- Describe some possible proof of life or proof that the code works as expected.

> You can connect to and disconnect to a page using the io.on method to monitor and log connections to the console, and observe a console log showing those connections/disconnections.  

- What does socket.emit() do?

> It allows us to create custom events for firing off messages.

- What is the difference between WebSocket and Socket.IO? (think Git and GitHub, or OAuth and Auth0).

> WebSocket is a communication protocol, and Socket.IO is a JavaScript library that makes it way, way easier to utilize WebSocket protocols in our applications. 

- When would you use Socket.IO?

> When you want to develop an application that will make use of the WebSocket communication protocol and you need a well supported and understood library to do it with, and you want to make the interactions client and server side transparent.  Primarily, when you want your communications to be event-based.

- When would you use WebSockets?

> When your priority is full duplex communication rather tahn event basex communication.  Basically an open channel.

-What are a couple of key takeaways from this video?

> Applications can cross more than one level of the OSI layer, i.e. a browser can work in the application, presentation and session layers.  We use different types of transport methods based on what we're transmitting or trying to accomplish.  TCP and UDP have fundamental functional differences and are appropriate for different objectives.  There are SO MANY MORE communications protocols at different OSI layers than I ever imagined.

- Translate the gist of this video to a non-technical friend

> TCP is a communications protocol that prioritizes reliable communications on a system that is NOT full-duplex.  Picture if you were using a push-to-talk radio or voice system.  It's like using the radio in the military: "Station A, this is Station B, how copy, over?"  "Station B, this is Station A, solid copy, send traffic, over". "Station A, be advised, blahblahblah"


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 