# Class 13: Message Queues

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does.

> The chat program created here is basically just a small application that maintains an open channel (a socket) that accepts text inputs and routes it to a webpage to display.  It has logic that 'listens' for inputs in the channel for it to then retrieve and push to its destination: in this case, a bare bones web page.

- What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?

> Console logs that the server is listening on port 3000, and logs that users are connecting/disconnecting (even if it's just open browser tabs).

- Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone.  What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?

> The Broadcast flag, to broadcast 'from' that socket.

- What is a room and how might a room be useful?

> It's an arbitrary channel for sockets to join and leave, and can be used for broadcasting messages to *only* a subset of clients.

- How do you join a room?

> socket.join

- How do you leave a room?

> socket.leave

- What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?

> It's a channel for communications within socket.io that allows you to split and segregate functional logic of your application while maintaining a single connection.

- Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)

> Event handlers, rooms, middleware.

- Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces.

> Role based privileges for different users.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 