# Class XX: Topic

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is an EC2 Instance?

> Per Amazon: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers.

- Name 2 use cases for EC2.

> High Performance Computing, and hosting development environments for Apple developers.

- Provide 1 reason to use ECS instead of a service such as Heroku, Digital Ocean, or Render.com.

> Extremely deep support resources.  A SLA promising 99.99% uptime.

- Where can we find EC2 on the AWS Console?

> The first option under the Compute section.

- Explain the general difference between T2 Micro and XL.

> T2 micro offers low performance hosting (1 vcpu, 8gb ram, not much CPU credits) while the xlarge offers moderately better performance (4 vcpus, 16gb ram, lots of cpu credits).

- Explain a “Compute Cycle” to a non-technical friend.

> It's just the amount of time it takes for a computer to complete a single unit of work.  Beefier computers can do the same single unit of work better than one with few resources. 
 
- What is Elastic Beanstalk?

> It's a comprehensive deployment tool that lets you kind of do devops on tap.  

- Describe the relationship between EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk.

> EC2 is the hosting environment, EC2 is the tool provided by AWS to help us automate most of our deployment.  

- Name some benefits of using Elastic Beanstalk.

> Comprehensive suite of easy to configure deployment tools, pricing based on used resources (which may be a double edged sword) and less overall time spent on system administration tasks.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- Greatest hits of last three weeks is coming back this week, but with AWS products.

- We're going to be exploring a lot of the tools available with AWS.

- In a whiteboard with a data model, if you're lost on where to start, try asking if you can get some sample data.

- 1035: Class 16 we're doing basic setup for our AWS environment.  

- 1036: Class 17 we'll use Lambda to set up middleware on our AWS servers.  

- 1038: Class 18 we'll work on reimplementing a REST/CRUD server with API gateway using the AWS product DynamoDB.

- 1039: Class 19 we'll be focused on events with SQS (amazon's queueing service) and SNS (amazon's notification service).  S3 and SNS are how AWS makes most of their money.

- 1040: Class 20 on Friday is the midterm project kickoff.

- You'll mostly live out of the console.  You can get there by just searching for Console.

- Cost Explorer or Cost Manager is linked to from your cost and usage tab.  

- Our overall objective today is to understand what EC2 is and how to use it and Elastic Beanstalk to deploy our apps.

- 


##### Things I want to know more about

- 