# Class 17: AWS S3

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is Amazon S3?

> Per Amazon: Amazon S3 is object storage built to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere. S3 is a simple storage service that offers industry leading durability, availability, performance, security, and virtually unlimited scalability at very low costs.

- Name some use cases for Amazon S3.

> Also per Amazon: data storage scaled to any application's size, from a small FTP server to enterprise systems like Amazon.com itself.

- Name some benefits of using Amazon S3.

> Low upfront cost and high reliability out of the box.  Per Amazon: Amazon S3 lets you leverage Amazon’s own benefits of massive scale with no up-front investment or performance compromises. By using Amazon S3, it is inexpensive and simple to ensure your data is quickly accessible, always available, and secure. You can store virtually any kind of data in any format. The total volume of data and number of objects you can store in Amazon S3 are unlimited.

- What is AWS Lambda?

> Per Amazon: AWS Lambda is a serverless computing service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS). Users of AWS Lambda create functions, self-contained applications written in one of the supported languages and runtimes, and upload them to AWS Lambda, which executes those functions in an efficient and flexible manner.
In class we learned that Lambda takes care of the middleware on our AWS servers.

- Name some use cases for AWS Lambdas.

> Per Amazon: Scalable APIs. When building APIs using AWS Lambda, one execution of a Lambda function can serve a single HTTP request. Different parts of the API can be routed to different Lambda functions via Amazon API Gateway. AWS Lambda automatically scales individual functions according to the demand for them, so different parts of your API can scale differently according to current usage levels. This allows for cost-effective and flexible API setups.
‍
Data processing. Lambda functions are optimized for event-based data processing. It is easy to integrate AWS Lambda with datasources like Amazon DynamoDB and trigger a Lambda function for specific kinds of data events. For example, you could employ Lambda to do some work every time an item in DynamoDB is created or updated, thus making it a good fit for things like notifications, counters and analytics.

- Describe “serverless” to a non-technical friend.

> Basically the entire networking layer of your application - the part that lets the app talk to other computer systems - is taken care of for you.  You can focus on just what your app does, rather than how it talks to other apps. Serverless takes care of that entire layer, you just rent it out and work on your own applications.

- What is a CDN?

> Content Delivery Network.

- How does a CDN work with relation to the website visitor?

> The Cyberhoot article is perfect: CDNs work through servers nearest to the website visitor respond to the request. The content delivery network copies the pages of a website to a network of servers that are spread out at geographically different locations, caching the contents of the page. When a user requests a webpage that is part of a content delivery network, the CDN will redirect the request from the originating site’s server to a server in the CDN that is closest to the user and deliver the cached content. CDNs will also communicate with the originating server to deliver any content that has not been previously cached. In turn, the speed is improved by distributing content closer to the website visitors by using a nearby CDN server, causing visitors to experience faster page loading times. In simpler terms, for example, instead of a user in London trying to access a server in LA, which can cause slower Internet speeds, the user would be redirected through a CDN that is geographically closest to them (London, Paris, Stockholm, etc). As of today, the majority of web traffic goes through through CDNs, including traffic from major sites like Facebook, Netflix, and Amazon.

- What are the benefits of employing a CDN?

> It gives you much faster and much more reliable page load based on a client's geographical location.  


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- Lambda is what we're using today to do middleware.

- S3 is a cloud based file system, basically.  It's very good at storing video, audio, text data, web data, anything you'd want to have access to on a local device.

- 1018: demo of Jacob's S3 instance.

- 1039: beginning of Lambda instruction.

- 1110: using lambda to keep track of and update JSON objects, stored in the bucket we created earlier.

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 