# Class 18: AWS: API, Dynamo, Lambda

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is Amazon API Gateway?

> A managed service for developers to define the HTTP endpoints of a REST API or a websocket API to connect those endpoints with the corresponding back end business logic.  It also does authentication, access control, monitoring and API request traces.

- Why is Amazon API Gateway an important part of the Serverless ecosystem?

> The way I read it the API gateway basically servers the function of middleware, allowing HTTP requests to be tied to a serverless function.

- How does API Gateway integrate with other AWS services?

> Lambda runs the functions to generate API responses, SNS publishes notifications for accessing endpoints, and cognito provides auth/auth.

- What are the some benefits of using Amazon API Gateway?

> Cost savings, easy monitoring, RESTful API options.

- What two API types might you choose from?

> HTTP, REST or WebSocket APIs.

- What is DynamoDB?

> Amazon's non-SQL database service.

- Under what circumstances would you recommend DynamoDB over MongoDB?

> If you're heavily relying on AWS to manage the rest of your application, might as well keep it all under the same roof.

- Explain to a non-technical friend how DynamoDB works.

> DynamoDB is a database system that doesn't require everything to be stored in a uniform fashion, and access to it is basically rented out by Amazon.  Picture you were some artisinal cheese maker and rather than selling at a farmer's market you wanted to sell in a nice warm grocery store, so you made a deal with Safeway to not just use some of their floor space, but their fridge space too, and maybe even got one of their employees to help you with setup and tear down in exchange for some of the profits.  It's like that.

- What is Dynamoose?

> A modeling tool for Amazon's DynamoDB, allowing you to use familiar syntax to manipulate DynamoDB tables in your code.

- What are some key features of Dynamoose?

> Type safety, easy syntax, strict data modeling.

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 