# Class Component Based UI

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What are the building blocks of a React app?

> Components!

- What is the difference between an HTML element and a React component?

> Syntactically it's that React components start with a capital letter and HTML tags are lowercase.

- What is JSX and why do we use it?

> It's used for react projects and is a bit stricter than HTML.  It's optional but React-specific, so its use is preferred.

- Describe the process of embedding JavaScript expressions in JSX.

> Using curly braces instead of quotes lets you escape into JavaScript from JSX attributes.

- Does React or JSX have any special features for iteration or conditional logic?

> No, it's the same as regular JavaScript.

- How does React know to respond to a user’s inputs?

> Declaring event handler functions inside the React components.

- What word indicates that a React component manages data with a Hook?

> Use.

- How can two react components share data?

> Move the state up to the components' parent component, i.e. 'lifting state up.'

- What are the three steps of refreshing a React UI?

> Triggering->Rendering->Committing

- How do you trigger updates to a component after the initial render?

> By updating its state.

- Does React recreate DOM nodes on every rerender?

> Only the ones that have changed.

- After React has updated the DOM, what still needs to happen before the user sees the change?

> The browser repaints the screen, i.e. browser rendering.  Kind of like moving from dev to main after all commits have been accepted.

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 