# Class 31: Context API

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Summarize the five principles for structuring state.

> Group Related State: not so different from just keeping it DRY.  If multiple state variables always change together, group them into a single state.  Even if it works in multiple states, it's easier to maintain if they're grouped into a single state and makes the code more readable and intuitive.
> Avoid contradictions in state: another point about keeping the code as simple as possible.  If it's possible for contradictory variables to be true at the same time, it can become a problem.  It's better to replace them with a single variable that has multiple states.
> Avoid redundant state: if you're using state to store data that could be handled in render, you should remove that from state.  Anything that's processed in render doesn't need to be handled specifically in state and is cleaner code.
> Avoid duplication in state: if you want multiple components to update on a single state change, you don't want to have to manually update state several times.  
> Avoid deeply nested state: if your state is too nested and verbose to be easily updated, it's hard to maintain.  By flattening the data from a deep tree to a single layer it simplifies what you need to update.

- What problem do Contexts aim to solve?

> The problem of having to use repetitive prop drilling when passing data from a parent to child elements.

- What is one technique to try before useContext?

> Actually trying to pass props, because the data flow becomes very clear.

- What hook complements useContext for complex applications?

> useState would be the big one!


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 1022: context; a way to 'lift' state out of components from a parent component down to all of its children.

- 1035: setting up context in its own folder for our React app.

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 