# Class 34: API integration

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Explain the different between a query string parameter and a path parameter.

> A query string is what gets fed into a URL following a ? character that's used to make a GET request to an API.  A path parameter is part of the regular URL and points to specific resources.

- What would our API URL with a path id parameter be given the following information:
Domain: http://our-site.com
v3
model name: stuff
id: things

> http://our-site.com/v3/stuff/things

- We have created a dynamic API with an “interface”. Describe how that interface works to a non-technical friend.

> The interface is what's user-facing.  The API allows you to make requests to manipulate data in some way, but the interface is how a user actually gets hands on.

- Describe how you would use middleware to implement basic and bearer auth.

> Middleware sits between different components of the application, and auth middleware will require the user to be authenticated before accessing any other part of the site.

- Describe the handshake necessary to implement OAuth.

> The user submits a username and password and receives a token from OAuth.  When making a request from that point forward, the user passes the token in the request instead of credentials.  It's kind of like getting a wristband going into a festival.

- Describe how Role Based Access Control works to a non-technical friend.

> All RBAC means is that a user gets only as much access as they need to perform their jobs.  

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 