# Class 36: Application State With Redux

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is the first principle of Redux?

> Whether your app is very simple or very complex, you're representing the whole state of your app as a single JavaScript object.  It's our "single source of truth."

- What is a store and what do we use our reducers for within that store?

> A store is an object holding the complete state of the application.  Because state is immutable - like a save state in an emulated video game - it can't be changed directly.  Reducers are functions that take the current state and an action as an input, and return a new state as output.  

- Name three Redux store methods given to us by createStore and describe their use.

> getState: returns the current state object.
> dispacth(action): dispatches an action, triggering a state change in thet store.  Takes an action object as input and passes it to the reducers.
> subscribe(listener): register a listener function that will be called whenever the state in the store changes. Can update the UI or other necessary actions in response to state changes.

- Explain to a non-technical recruiter what combineReducers() does and why it is useful.

> combineReducers() is a function that allows you to combine multiple reducers into a single reducer function.  Since you may want to make multiple changes to the current state of your application at once, you can combine them into one to make it easier to understand, test and maintain.  It's like keeping all the tools for the same project in one place.

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 
