# Class 37: Redux - Combined Reducers

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Why create multiple reducers?

> Because it makes your code easier to maintain. Every reducer is responsible for updating a slice of the app's state. By making it more modular it's easier to isolate and test any single piece of functionality or logic.

- How would you combine multiple reducers?

> By using the combineReducers() function and passing in all the reducers you want to combine into a single function.

- How will you manage state as an immutable object? why?

> You don't manage it so much as make a new modified version of state anew every time you want to change state.  Reducers take state and an action as an input and return a new modified version of state as an output.  What I still don't really get is what benefit we get out out of managing state this way.

- combineReducers is a utility function to simplify the most common use case when writing ___ _____ .

> Applications with many state changes.

- Explain how combineReducers assembles the new state tree.

> combineReducers takes an object where each key corresponds to a slice of the state, and each value is the reducer function responsible for managing that part of the state.  It's like a keybinding list in a PC game.  When an action is dispatched, combineReducers generates a new state tree by calling each reducer with its slice of the state and the dispatched action, and assembling the results into a new state object.

- How would you define initial state in an app using combineReducers?

> The initial state of the Redux store can be defined in each individual reducer. When Redux initializes, it dispatches a mock action to every reducer. When each reducer receives this initial action, if the current state passed to it is undefined, it should return the initial state for its part of the state tree.

- Why will you want to split your reducing functions as your app becomes more complex?

> It can be very unwieldy to try and maintain state with a single reducer function on a larger codebase.  Splitting the reducer functions allows you to keep your codebase more organized, making it easier to understand, test, and debug.

- The _____ helper function turns an object whose values are different reducing functions into a single reducing function you can pass to ____.

> combineReducer / createStore

- What is a popular convention when naming reducers?

> In camelCase, write the noun for the data in state that's being managed.  
> profileReducer, authenticationReducer, etc.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 
