# Class 38: Redux - Asynchronous Actions

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Why use Redux middleware?

> To work around the limitation of redux reducers never containing/using side effects.  Redux middleware were designed to enable writing logic with side effects.

- Consider the Redux Async Data Flow Diagram. Describe the flow in your own words.

> The UI receives a click event to desposit $10.  A click event is handled by the event handler, which dispatches an action to the Middleware.  The middleware makes an API call, gets a response, and dispatches an action to the store.  The store uses whichever appropriate reducers to mock up new state, which updates the UI, which then is ready for a new click even to withdraw $10.

- How are we accommodating async in our Redux app?

> By using thunk middleware.  Thunk functions allow us to reuse logic without knowing what redux store we're using ahead of time.

- Why would you need redux-thunk middleware?

> If you need to write async functions with logic that can interact with a redux store's dispatch and getState methods.

- Redux Thunk middleware allows you to write action creators that return a ____ instead of an action.

> function

- Describe how any return value from the inner thunk function will be made available.

> The return value from the inner thunk function (thunktion?) will be available as the return value of the dispatch itself.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 