# Class 41: React Native

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Name three Core Components of React Native and describe what they do.

> Per the docs: 
> View: A container that supports layout with flexbox, style, some touch handling, and accessibility controls
> Text: Displays, styles, and nests strings of text and even handles touch events
> Image: Displays different types of images

- What problem does React Native solve (why call it native)?

> React Native solves the problem of developing iOS and Android applications in different languages and frameworks.  React Native lets you write components in React JavaScript (natively!) and have it invoke the corresponding Android or iOS views for those components.

- What are the building blocks of a React Native app? How does that compare to a React app?

> React Native apps are made of core components, native components and (probably) community components.  Regular react apps are made of components, JSX, props and state.

- What solution does expo provide?

> Expo provides a streamlined set of tools, services and a easily approachable dev environment to build React Native apps.  It's easier to get started with than the React Native CLI.

- Expo tries to manage as much of the complexity of building apps as possible, which is why we call it the ____ workflow.

> Managed

- What is the difference between React Native and Expo?

> React Native is a framework for building cross-platform mobile apps using React, while expo is a development environment and set of tools layered on top of React Native intended to make the development process easier.

- Checkout this tool. What does snack allow you to do?

> Snack lets you emulate a mobile environment on your local machine, whether iOS, Android or browser.

- What does “eject” mean within the context of Expo?

> To leave the Expo development environment into the 'bare' workflow.

- When should you not eject?

> If your app doesn't require any native modules, because the Expo managed workflow handles most of the config/build process without  needing to Eject.  Or, if your app is within the acceptable size limit for the Expo managed workflow, since ejecting might add more complexity.

- Why might you choose to eject?

> If you need a native module not supported by Expo.
> If you need more control over the native code and need access to the bare workflow.
> If your app size exceeds the limit of the Expo managed workflow.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 
