# Introductory HTML and JavaScript

### 1/23 Reading and Lecture notes
 
 
### Reading assigment questions and a haiku

##### Haiku-TTP: a awful poem
- Hyper Text Transfer 
- Protocol, the medium
- For my web data

Describe how HTML, CSS, and JS files are “parsed” in the browser.
> In layers! First, the HTML is read and loaded by the browser, ensuring that at least this basic human readable site can load.  Next, CSS rules are applied, either from within the style tag of the HTML page or a linked CSS sheet.  Finally, JavaScript script is loaded much the same way, running from the script tag or from an external .js file.

How can you find images to add to a Website?
> A google image search with the Creative Commons License filter set will work, though there are many open source image sites like Unsplash available too.

How do you create a String vs a Number in JavaScript?
> In quotes!  Numbers count as numbers outside of quotes, where they work like any other string.  Strings get concatenated if you try and to arithmetic on them in JavaScript.

What is a Variable and why are they important in JavaScript?
> Variables are pretty core to programming, allowing you to do things like set parameters for functions, and store results of code for later use.  

#### Further reading assignment questions

1. **What is an HTML attribute?**  HTML attributes are modifiers to HTML tags that give them more specific functions, like sizing an image or coloring text.  They're added inside the tag in the form of <tag attribute= ></tag>.
2. **Describe the Anatomy of an HTMl element.**  Start tag, content, /end tag.  Elements are openened and closed with tags that may or may not be modified by attributes, and the content is stuck between.  
3. **What is the Difference between article and section element tags?**  As far as I can tell it's stylistic?  I'm not clear if there is a technical difference.  Sections are for groups of related content or functionality, while articles are supposed to be comprehensible independent of the parent page.
4. **What Elements does a “typical” website include?**  At the very least, a header element, main element, nav element, and footer element.  Most of the content of the page would live in the main element.
5. **How does metadata influence Search Engine Optimization?**  One way is by having the description of the site include keywords relating to the content.  When users search for those keywords, your site will appear higher on the list.
6. **How is the meta HTML tag used when specifying metadata?**  The meta tag can include multiple attributes like name and content that can give more specificity to the site authorship and purpose.

7. **What is the first step to designing a Website?**  Deciding *what you want to accomplish* with your website, and *if you need a website to do it.*  After that you can list what steps you need to take, and in what order, to accomplish this goal.
8. **What is the most important question to answer when designing a Website?**  What do I want to accomplish?  These two questions feel functionally the same.

9. **Why should you use an h1 element over a span element to display a top level heading?**  The functionality of a top level heading is built into h1, and a browser is smart enough to render the content of a h1 to appear as such even before applying any CSS rules.  Any of that *could* be accomplished with span, but you'd have to do it manually and why bother when you could rely on the browser to give you the same functionality more easily?
10. **What are the benefits of using semantic tags in our HTML?**  Automatic application of styling rules in a easy and consistent way, and a 'content agnostic' approach is more clear to read and maintain.
11. **What is JavaScript?**  A programming language that adds dynamic functionality to websites.
12. **Describe 2 things that require JavaScript in the Browser?**  Storing values inside variables, and running code in response to user input (like a mouse click).
13. **How can you add JavaScript to an HTML document?**  You can do it inside the <script> tag on a HTML page, or you can do it externally on a .js file, which can be referenced in the src attribute of the script tag.
  
  
  #### Things I want to know more about
  - What is the actual technical difference between article and section?
