# Basics of HTML, CSS and JavaScript

### 1/24 Reading and Lecture notes

Be aware that there's a few **labs** that are of extra importance.

- Lab 5c is open  now, is due Friday, and will be pretty tough/important.  It isn't *actually* going to be graded until the end of the weekend, but.. you know.  Get cracking bud.
- The lab is a 32 question problem set.  You should do at least 8 a day until then.  It's fun CSS practice.
- Career assignment 3 is to have a ten minute meeting with someone in your network in tech - Erika and Dan come to mind.

#### Code Review notes for 1/23

- It's best practice to put the script tag at the bottom of the page just before the closing body tag.  There's some exceptions, but it's best practice.
- Don't get hung up on the style of HTML as it renders.  That's not the point.  CSS does the styling.  ***The HTML tags represent purpose.***  h1 is the most important thing on the page, not just the biggest!  You can make it however big you want, but it's the **most important, so it's h1.**

#### Lecture notes

##### Primitives

**Primitives** is shorthand for the building blocks of larger or more complex data types.  Strings, numbers, boolean, etc. are the basic, irreducible building blocks of your code.  Things like *array* or *object* are not primitives, as they're constructed of other primitive types.

[MDN is one of many great resources for this.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Primitive)

> In JavaScript, a primitive (primitive value, primitive data type) is data that is not an object and has no methods or properties. There are 7 primitive data types:
>
string
>number
>bigint
>boolean
>undefined
>symbol
>null
>
>Most of the time, a primitive value is represented directly at the lowest level of the language implementation.
>
>All primitives are immutable; that is, they cannot be altered. It is important not to confuse a primitive itself with a variable assigned a primitive value. The variable may be reassigned to a new value, but the existing value can not be changed in the ways that objects, arrays, and functions can be altered. The language does not offer utilities to mutate primitive values.

- When working with JavaScript it's helpful to work within a **replit** environment for quick testing.
- **console.log() behavior:** keep in mind that the console.log returns results - even numerical results! - as a **string.**  The **parseInt** function can be used to pull leading numbers out of a string, and return them as the number data type.  [MDN - parseInt()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt)

#### Case style

kebab-case: used for GitHub repo titles
snake_case
camelCase: used for JavaScript variables
TitleCase

#### Interlude - Project repos

We've got a number of lab projects in 201.  Starting with this Lab02 project, create your repos for labs the same way.  [Thorough instructions are on the Code Fellows github.io page.](https://codefellows.github.io/code-201-guide/curriculum/class-02/project-setup)

1. Create a repo on github with a *kebab-case title,* a *.README file,* checked *public* with the *MIT license.*
2. Make sure the repo lives in your main branch (kfreemantle/project-name).
3. Use the green code button to copy the HTTPS connection stream.
4. From the terminal, navigate to your projects/courses/201 folder and use the git clone "https address" command to clone the repo.

**Don't forget to use the reset.css sheet when setting up your page!** It strips the CSS built into the browsers by default.  HOWEVER, it does mean you have to add ALL the styling back in yourself.

At the start of your **app.js** file, make sure to open with the statement:
> "use strict";
This applies strict format rules on your JS, which will be [good for learning.](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_strict.asp)  Undeclared variables are no longer allowed, for instance.  

#### Reading Notes

Interesting sections block quoted from the [MDN text pages.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/HTML_text_fundamentals)

>There are six heading elements: <h1>, <h2>, <h3>, <h4>, <h5>, and <h6>. Each element represents a different level of content in the document; <h1> represents the main heading, <h2> represents subheadings, <h3> represents sub-subheadings, and so on.

When implementing **structural hierarchy**, it's important to think about how your project is represented in the real world.  This can make it easier to visualize how to map it to the HTML tags.  h1 - story title, h2 - chapter title, h3 - chapter subsection, etc.  As long as the **hierarchies make sense** you're on the right track.

>Preferably, you should use a single <h1> per page—this is the top level heading, and all others sit below this in the hierarchy.
>Make sure you use the headings in the correct order in the hierarchy. Don't use <h3> elements to represent subheadings, followed by <h2> elements to represent sub-subheadings—that doesn't make sense and will lead to weird results.
>Of the six heading levels available, you should aim to use no more than three per page, unless you feel it is necessary. Documents with many levels (for example, a deep heading hierarchy) become unwieldy and difficult to navigate. On such occasions, it is advisable to spread the content over multiple pages if possible.

Without proper structure your page won't be readable, even if all the content is present.  Content in HTML needs to be wrapped in elements to be targeted by CSS and JavaScript.

When the word **semantics** is used in every day conversation, I usually hear it to mean *quibbling over small details.*  Do **not** make that mistake in coding.  Semantics in coding is more like how **keywords** work in Warhammer 40k.  (these notes are just for me!)

Notably, it's not good practice anymore to use the bold, italic and underline tags that you may recall from the dawn of time.
>Here's the best rule you can remember: It's only appropriate to use <b>, <i>, or <u> to convey a meaning traditionally conveyed with bold, italics, or underline when there isn't a more suitable element; and there usually is. Consider whether <strong>, <em>, <mark>, or <span> might be more appropriate.

Moving on to more [advanced text formatting...](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Advanced_text_formatting) There's a lot here to reference, particularly in regards to quotion.  Block and inline quotation seem the most immediately useful, although *superscript and subscript,* or <sup> and <sub> are commonly used markups.  Anything involving <time> is probably a big pain the butt.

[CSS structure notes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/First_steps/How_CSS_is_structured) page will be block quoted from in this section.  

CSS can be applied to HTML three ways.

1. Inline styles
2. Internal stylesheet
3. External stylesheet  <--the most common and useful method>

Typically you'll use external stylesheets, but there are circumstances under which an internal stylesheet may be useful, such as when you're blocked from modifying an external CSS file directly.  For sites with more than one page, this is a lot less efficient.

Inline styles are CSS declarations affecting only single HTML elements, contained within a style attribute.  You can put as many declarations as you want into the inline statement, though it gets kludgy fast.  **This is not best practice.**  It's the least efficient for maintenence and it's VERY hard to read mixed in with HTML.

> Warning: In CSS (and other web standards), it has been agreed that US spelling is the standard where there is language variation or uncertainty. For example, colour should be spelled color, as colour will not work.
***USA! USA!***

CSS even has a few built in functions, like **calc()** for doing simple math inside of an element, or the many values for **transform**, like **rotate**.  There's not very many CSS functions. But they seem pretty powerful.

**Shorthands** are going to be *so useful!*  This is worth quoting at length.
> Some properties like font, background, padding, border, and margin are called shorthand properties. This is because shorthand properties set several values in a single line.

For example, this one line of code:

/*In 4-value shorthands like padding and margin, the values are applied
   in the order top, right, bottom, left (clockwise from the top). There are also other
   shorthand types, for example 2-value shorthands, which set padding/margin
for top/bottom, then left/right*/
padding: 10px 15px 15px 5px;
Copy to Clipboard
is equivalent to these four lines of code:

padding-top: 10px;
padding-right: 15px;
padding-bottom: 15px;
padding-left: 5px;

**Comment your bloody code!** It'll make it easier to work on over time, especially for Dory-brained dorks like you.  Besides that, it's great for temporarily disabling specific functionality.

[JavaScript Basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/JavaScript_basics)  
In JavaScript, if your comment contains no line breaks you can put it behind // instead of inside /**/.
Recall that JavaScript uses arithmetical operators in addition to strict equality, assignment, and boolean operators.
**Conditionals**are if..else statements that only run code if the conditions are met.  This can be tough to grasp in practice, but [W3schools crushes it on this one.](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_if_else.asp)
**Functions**are just ways of reusing other bits of code.  The look like variables but typically follow the function() format.  The parentheses enclose the arguments the function needs to.. function.
**Event handlers**are code structures that are on the alert in the browser for *specific user input.*  By far the most common user input is the**click event.**  This is going to warrant further reading and practice, because I'm not very clear on how to actually use event handlers.

More on [conditionals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals) to be block quoted. To break it down very, VERY thoroughly:
> Basic if...else syntax looks like this:

if (condition) {
  /*code to run if condition is true*/
} else {
  /*run some other code instead*/
}
Copy to Clipboard
Here we've got:

The keyword if followed by some parentheses.
A condition to test, placed inside the parentheses (typically "is this value bigger than this other value?", or "does this value exist?"). The condition makes use of the comparison operators we discussed in the last module and returns true or false.
A set of curly braces, inside which we have some code — this can be any code we like, and it only runs if the condition returns true.
The keyword else.
Another set of curly braces, inside which we have some more code — this can be any code we like, and it only runs if the condition is not true — or in other words, the condition is false.

#### Assigned reading questions

**HTML**

1. Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?

> Putting content in its proper logical containers will help the site to behave in predictable ways.  I read semantics as being kind of like how class values work in JavaScript; they give you a way to modify specifically targeted content containers in a ordered, logical manner. You *could* manually make any element look however you want, but to what end?  

2. How many levels of headings are there in HTML?

> h1 through h6, so six total.

3. What are some uses for the sup and sub elements?

> Dates, math, chemical formulae, and probably scientific notation of all kinds.

4. When using the abbr element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?

> The title attribute. Example:  <abbr title="United States Marine Corps">USMC</abbr>

**CSS**

1. What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?

> Three ways: inline styling, internal stylesheet, or external stylesheet.

2. Why should we avoid using inline styles?

> It's the least efficent and hardest to maintain.
Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:

1. What is representing the selector?

> h2

2. Which components are the CSS declarations?

> color: black and padding: 5px

3. Which components are considered properties?

> color and padding

**JS**

1. What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?

> String!

2. List 4 types of JavaScript operators.

> Arithmetic, Assighment, Boolean, Does-not-equal

3. Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.

> Calculating the tip due on a check based on a percentage multiplication.

**Conditionals**

1. An if statement checks a **condition** and if it evaluates to **true**, then the code block will execute.
2. What is the use of an else if?

> You can use it to chain conditional outcomes to your first if statement.  If the first choice is false, check the next one, and if that's false check the next one, and....  It's a way to get multiple logical outcomes represented.

3. List 3 different types of comparison operators.

> ===/!== : identical or not identical
> < / >  : less/greater than
> <= / >= : less/greater or equal than

4. What is the difference between the logical operator && and \|\|?

> && AND requires every contained expression to resolve to TRUE for the whole expression to resolve to true.  || OR requires only one of the contained expression to resolve to true for the whole expression to resolve to true.

##### Things I want to know more about

- Is there anything really cool I can do with description lists?  It seems useful, but a weirdly specific function to have built in.
- How common is it to use a list of selectors instead of a individual selector in CSS?
- Event listeners seems REALLY important and I do not feel comfortable with them yet.
