# HTML links, JS functions, intro to CSS layout

### 1/26 Code review, lecture and reading notes

----

#### Reading Assignment Ansers

##### Learn HTML

- To create a basic link, we wrap text or other content inside what element?

> the `<a>` element.

- The href attribute contains what information?

> The target of our hyperlink.

- What are some ways we can ensure links on our pages are accessible to all readers?

> We can be clear and logical in our labeling of links, not be lazy about their alt text, and follow best practices (clear link wording, no 'click here!' etc.).

##### CSS Layout

- What is meant by “normal flow”?

> Normal flow is the way the page would display without any additional styling rules. It's important to begin by making our page readable in normal flow first as a starting point.

- What are a few differences between block-level and inline elements?

> Among other things, block-level elements will expand to fit their container regardless of their content, while inline elements will expand only to the width of their content.  Because of that you can't typically fix the width and height of inline elements (excepting images), whereas you *can* adjust these properties with block-level elements..

-**STATIC** positioning is the default for every html element.

> Static positioning!

- Name a few advantages to using absolute positioning on an element.

> Because the element sits in its own layer outside of normal document flow you can do cool stuff with it that don't interfere with the layout of other elements.  Picture things like mouseover/rollover menus and the like that sit in their own layer on a page.  

- What is a key difference between fixed positioning and absolute positioning?

> Fixed positioning orients the content based on the available viewing space.  Absolute positioning is calibrated off of whatever the position of the ancestor element was.

##### Learn JS

- Describe the difference between a function declaration and a function invocation.

> A function declaration is when you first construct the function.  You're a wizard who just put a new spell in your spellbook.  A function invocation is when you call the function and actually run it.  You're now a wizard who is casting their shiny new spell.

- What is the difference between a parameter and an argument?

> II was having a hard time articulating this from the reading. A *parameter* is a variable in the definition of a function.  It's a placeholder.  When you actually invoke a function, you pass an argument to fill in the spot held by the parameter.

##### Pair Programming

- Pick 2 benefits to pair programming and reflect on how these benefits could help you on your coding journey.

> The benefits were obvious and immediate, but the two big ones for me are 1) greater efficiency and 2) engaged collaboration.  We moved a little slower together, but without getting distracted and while catching a lot more bugs, making it a lot easier to refactor later on.  It's good to know that pair programming is done with new hires; I feel like that would make me much more confident quickly.

----

#### Code Review / Lecture / Reading notes

##### Creating Hyperlinks

Hyperlinks are some of the most elemental functionality of a website. They link pages, documents, media, etc. dynamically on a page.

At a basic level, a **link** is created by **wrapping** text or other content in a `<a>` element using the href="attribute address" format.  You can wrap text elements, image elements, and more with the `<a>` tag.

There's other attributes in the `<a>` tag that are useful.

- title="The title attribute provides mouseover text for the link."

It's important to remember that **address paths** for hyperlinks are relative. If you have content like images stored on your page, the href can point to a folder local to the web page for its content.  Of course, URLs work too but you may not have control over someone else's domain.

Links to a specific part of a HTML page, or a **document fragment** are possible by assigning a `<id>` attribute to whatever element you want to link to, and in your href appending the ID to the URL with a # symbol.

<!-- <h2 id="Mailing_address">Mailing address</h2>
<p>
  Want to write us a letter? Use our
  <a href="contacts.html#Mailing_address">mailing address</a>.
</p> -->

**Best practices** are that your link wording be clear and accessible to all readers.  It's worth copying this verbatim from MDN.

<!-- Screen reader users like jumping around from link to link on the page, and reading links out of context.
Search engines use link text to index target files, so it is a good idea to include keywords in your link text to effectively describe what is being linked to.
Visual readers skim over the page rather than reading every word, and their eyes will be drawn to page features that stand out, like links. They will find descriptive link text useful.

Don't repeat the URL as part of the link text — URLs look ugly, and sound even uglier when a screen reader reads them out letter by letter.
Don't say "link" or "links to" in the link text — it's just noise. Screen readers tell people there's a link. Visual users will also know there's a link, because links are generally styled in a different color and underlined (this convention generally shouldn't be broken, as users are used to it).
Keep your link text as short as possible — this is helpful because screen readers need to interpret the entire link text.
Minimize instances where multiple copies of the same text are linked to different places. This can cause problems for screen reader users, if there's a list of links out of context that are labeled "click here", "click here", "click here". -->

Consider how a user experiences your site when following a link.  Not everyone is on a reliable, unmetered high bandwidth connection.

##### CSS: Normal Flow

**Normal Flow** describes the way page elements lay out if you have not changed their layouts.  ***The best way to begin any webpage is to start with a well-structured document that is clearly readable in normal flow!***

By default, **block level elements** content will fill the available inline space of the parent element, and will expand the content out to the limit of the space, even if that content is just whitespace.  **Inline elements** will expand to just the size of their content.  Except for *images* you can't change the width or height of inline elements; they just sit inside the content of block level elements.

When vertically adjacent elements both have a margin and they touch, the *bigger* margin remains and the *smaller* margin collapses.  Margin collapsing is covered extensively on MDN and is [worth reviewing at length.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing)

##### CSS Layout: Positioning

Positioning is what lets you take elements out of *normal* document flow and make them work differently.  There's a few different ways to override normal document flow, and you can put them into action by using the CSS `position` property. There's a few different possible position property options.

- **Static** positioning is the default setting, simply putting the element in the normal position in document flow.
- **Relative** positioning sets the position adjustments relative to where the content *should* be if it were in normal flow.
- **Absolute** positioning puts the element outside of the normal document flow. It sits in its own layer in a position relative to the most recently used ancestor element.
- **Fixed** positioning is a weird one, where it places the element in a fixed position relative to the visible portion of the viewing window.  Picture manage cookies windows, for example.
 

##### Functions - reusable blocks of code

**Functions** are a core component of what you'll be doing for the rest of your career.  If you have a piece of code you want to run again later without typing the same code out again, 

Picture writing a function like a Discworld style wizard who has invented a new spell. You **declare** the function first - writing it to your spell book - and then later when you use it you **invoke** the function - casting the spell.  Your function may have **parameters** as well, or arguments that you pass into the function that change what goes into it or how it's run.  This is kind of like metamagic feats modifying a sorceress' spell.

Function **scope** refers to what lives inside of the function. Variables and code inside of your function is not reachable by code outside of the function.  The top level outside of all your functions is called the **global scope.** Picture .cfg files in games with global variables at the start of the file.  Global values are accessible from anywhere.


---

Today we're **forking** a branch in github to review someone else's code.  This is done through their github repo for you to work on their code in your own space.

#### Functions

Any time you're writing the same piece of code over and over, it's a pretty good clue you should be making it a **function.** Functions are blocks of code that can be reused for later.  To use the code in a function, that function must be **invoked**, like a wizard's spell in the Earthsea books.  The function is **called** when the function command is run.
Functions that are specifically declared as a function can be called from *anywhere in the script!*  Those functions are stored in memory by the browser **before invoking the code**, meaning you can call those functions anywhere.  Neat!

A big perk of functions is that you can change code in one spot and have it affect many other lines of code automatically.  You can have as many arguments as you want in our function, and **if you declare one of the arguments to be a variable, it will become the default argument.** However, it can be overridden just by passing a different argument when you call the function.

#### CSS positioning

How do CSS boxes get positioned?  There's a lot of ways to do it, but a couple of main ways stand out.

- Is it positioned in relationship to another HTML element on the page?  
- Is it positioned in relationship to the browser window?  
- Does it move as we scroll up and down or does it stay put?

You can use **position** attributes in the element styling of your CSS sheet.  

- position: **static** will display the element
- position: **relative** displays its box relative to where it *would* have been if it were a static element.  Adjustments are passed after that (left: 50px, etc)
- position: **absolute** positions the box relative to its *most recent ancestor element with positioning applied to it.*  This can be very flexible and useful.
- position: **fixed** sticks the box to an absolute position on the page window that **scrolls with the page**.  It's not going anywhere, and stays put relative to a fixed reference in the viewing window.

##### Things I want to know more about

- More common pairings for nested functions.
- Is there a parseInt type function that will read a string from left to right or right to left and parse the first contiguous numerical value?
- The best way to process the results of a prompt() function seems to be to convert the string after with parseInt, parseFloat, or +.  Is there a different way to collect user response via javascript that only accepts certain data types up front?
- I'm very unclear and shaky on anonymous and arrow functions.
