# Class 06: Problem Domain, Objects, the DOM

### Code review, lecture and reading notes

----

#### Assigned Reading Answers

- How would you describe an object to a non-technical friend you grew up with?

> Functions and objects are like entries in a wizard's spellbook.  You could think of a object as a complete spell, made up of all sorts of sub components of different types; material, verbal, somatic, etc.  Just like a spell is made up of different components and takes different forms when invoked, a object is also made of **member items**, each of which has a name and a value.  And just like spells in Discworld can be made collaboratively, take on a life of their own and even contain other spells, so too can objects be composed both simple and complicated values and pieces of code.

- What are some advantages to creating object literals?

> It's a lot more efficient to send a single object than a whole bunch of items individually and it's easier to work with than an array because the usage and naming conventions are a lot more intuitive.

- How do objects differ from arrays?

> Objects represent "things" with a set of characteristics in your code.  Arrays store lists of data in a single variable.  In practice though... I can't tell the difference beyond how they're manipulated.  

- Give an example for when you would need to use bracket notation to access an object’s property instead of dot notation.

> I'd use bracket notation if I wanted to update the name of a object member in addition to updating the value.  Other than that I think I'd just use dot notation because it's easier.

- Evaluate the code below. What does the term this refer to and what is the advantage to using this?

> *this* refers to the object that the code is being written in.  It's a very useful way to be able to use one object repeatedly to manipulate a larger set of similar data.

const dog = {
  name: 'Spot',
  age: 2,
  color: 'white with black spots',
  humanAge: function (){
    console.log(`${this.name} is ${this.age*7} in human years`);
  }
}

- Briefly describe the relationship between the DOM and JavaScript.

> The DOM is the set of APIs that represent a model of the document (the website) in nodes and objects for other applications to be able to mamipulate.
----

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

##### JavaScript Object Basics

**Objects** are collections of related data or functionality.  If you're continuing with the wizard's spellbook example, you could think of a object as a complete spell, made up of all sorts of sub components of different types; material, verbal, somatic, etc.  A function outside of a object could be a cantrip.  Just like a spell is made up of different components and takes different forms when invoked, a object is also made of **member items**, each of which has a name and a value.

> const objectName = {
  member1Name: member1Value,
  member2Name: member2Value,
  member3Name: member3Value,
};

**Object member** values can be pretty much anything.  A member item is a **property** when it is a data item.  Items like functions that allow the object to *do something* with the data are referred to as the object's **methods.** So remember, the ***property is the what, the method is the how.***

Methods can be written inside of  objects as regular functions would be.  You don't have to do 

> functionName: function(); 

Instead you can just do functionName() {}.

Objects that have their contents literally written out as they're created are called **object literals.**  They're different from objects instantiated from classes (later topic).  Object literals are often used when you want to send a series of structured, related data items in some way.  It's a lot more efficient to send a single object than a whole bunch of items individually and it's easier to work with than an array because the usage and naming conventions are a lot more intuitive.

**Dot notation** is how you access items inside an object.

> objectName.objectItem;
> objectName.objectItem.objectSubItem;   // and so on, and so forth...

Values can be set or updated using dot notation the same as you do for declaring variables.

> person.age = 38; 
> person.name.last = "Freemantle"

**Bracket notation** is similar to dot notation but a bit more cumbersome.  However, you can use it to dynamically add new member names in addition to member values.

> const myDataName = "height";
> const myDataValue = "1.75m";
> person[myDataName] = myDataValue;

It's hard to wrap your head around at first, but remember:
- **Dot notation** is *easy,* and *good for fixed members.*
- **Bracket notation** is *harder,* and *good for variable members.*

The **this** keyword is a very useful tool when writing multiple object literals.  When you use **this** it refers to the ***current object the code is being written in.***

> // these are written inside the `person` object.
>  const person1 = {
  name: "Chris",
  introduceSelf() {
    console.log(`Hi! I'm ${this.name}.`);
  },
};

const person2 = {
  name: "Deepti",
  introduceSelf() {
    console.log(`Hi! I'm ${this.name}.`);
  },
};

**Constructors** 

Constructors are simply functions prefaced by the **new** keyword that can be used to create more than one object from a single object definition.  When you write a constructor, it will:

1. Create a new object.
2. Bind **this** to the new object so you can use **this** in your constructor code.
3. Run the constructor code.
4. Return the new object.

Example:
<!-- 
function Person(name) {
  this.name = name;
  this.introduceSelf = function () {
    console.log(`Hi! I'm ${this.name}.`);
  };
}
const salva = new Person("Salva");
salva.name;
salva.introduceSelf();

const frankie = new Person("Frankie");
frankie.name;
frankie.introduceSelf();
 -->

##### Document Object Model - The DOM



##### Things I want to know more about

- I'm a little shaky on using bracket notation to update object values with variable member names.
- Constructors seem very powerful, but I don't understand yet how they're saving me time and effort.
