# Class 07: Object Oriented Programming, HTML tables


#### Assigned Reading Answers


- Explain why we need domain modeling.

> Domain modeling is a process of building a conceptual map of a specific problem.  It's needed because we can't just start to code without a plan; we have to define the boundaries of the problem, what we're trying to solve for, and what we already know.  If you don't have a domain model you haven't really defined the problem, and if you haven't defined the problem you can't devise a solution.  The better model you have for your problem, the more elegant and complete your solution will be.


- Why should tables not be used for page layouts?

> Among other things, it makes it terrible for accessibility.  Tables being used for page layouts predates wide support for CSS.  The short version is it makes everything harder to make, change and maintain.  You get a worse product for a lot more effort.

- List and describe 3 different semantic HTML elements used in an HTML <table>.

> <tr> - Table Row, defines a single horizontal row of table data cells.
> <td> - Table Data, a single cell of tabular data within a table row.
> <th> - Table Head, a table cell with some built in functionality and styling intended for use as the top row for your table, though you aren't required to do use them there exclusively.

- What is a constructor and what are some advantages to using it?

> Constructors are functions which will build objects all of the same 'shape.'  You can define most of the properties of the objects you want to build in the constructor, and then set as parameters the object-specific arguments you want to pass when you call the constructor function.  Constructors save you a whole lot of time and effort in the creation of objects, so you don't have to just make a million object literals.

- How does the term 'this' differ when used in an object literal versus when used in a constructor?

> In a object literal 'this' refers to the object it's contained within.  You could just as well put the object's name, and it all has to be done manually.  In a constructor, the 'this' will pass on to every object it creates, allowing you to build objects with the correct value references.

- Explain prototypes and inheritance via an analogy from your previous work experience.

> I used to handle medical billing for a few psychiatrist practices.  They provided a lot of different services but they all needed patients to have an intake appointment and fill out some screeners.  I kept a different welcome e-mail template for each practice for new patients, which I'd fill out while on the phone with a new patient.  I'd only have to fill out different patient names, so this was like my constructor.  In those e-mail templates, I put in red font any information that would need to be modified depending on what kind of intake the patient needed, which I'd copy paste from a separate 'special intake' file.  This was only needed conditionally, and I'd only act on it IF the patient indicated they needed something that wasn't in my email template.  That part of the intake call and the attached 'special intake' copy-pasting was my prototype, and the e-mail the patient ultimately got inherited properties from the templates. 


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- I'm not confident with my explanations of prototype and inheritance.