# Class 08: CSS layout



#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Flexbox is designed for one-dimensional content. Explain what this means.

> When flexbox does something like wrap content around to another line, it's not structurally changing anything, just how it's displayed.  All that content still exists on a single line; the relationship between the content items isn't really changing.  

- Explain the difference between the main axis and cross axis.

> Main axis and cross axis are just means of describing orientation.  Because not all content goes like english (left to right, top to bottom) main and cross axis describe orientation in a more flexible way.

- How can using certain properties of flexbox negatively impact accessibility?

> If you do something like use flexbox to reverse order the display of your content for some reason, it doesn't actually change the logical order.  A screen reader is going to read the logical order, and if you're designing around the visual representation in place of the structural order, your screen reader user is going to have a bad time.

- What are some advantages of using flexbox over float?

> flexbox dynamically and visually reorders content.  Float just removes an element from the frame and basically sticks it on its own top layer.  You get it to pop out, but it's cumbersome to deal with and doesn't dynamically resize or reorder anything.

- How does this topic connect with your long term goals?

> My main personal project that I want to create is a web tool that will let me visualize how much space on my dining room table each of my board games takes up. I'd want to be able to have it scale up and down with number of players, dynamically display each player's play area as well as any common play area, and let me know whether or not I need to extend the dining room table.  In effect, the whole project needs to visually display as a big flexbox with some bells and whistles.  If it worked this is a tool I would use personally as well as in a portfolio.



#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 