# Class 09: Forms and JS Events


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Why are forms so important in web development?

> Forms are a very common way of interacting with and collecting data from users.  They're used often, for lots of different purposes, and they are relatively complex to build well.  You WILL be responsible for designing clean and functional forms professionally more than once, so it behooves you to do so well.

- When designing a form, what are some key things to keep in mind when it comes to user experience?

> You don't want to ask for too much.  A form that is clean and to the point is far less frustrating to use than an extensive intake form type of thing.  Forms are one of the more complex ways to interact with a user, so you have a responsibility to be respectful of their time and experience.

- List 5 form elements and explain their importance.

> `<fieldset>` - a way to create a group of widgets with similar purpose.  It's best to split long forms into multiple pages, but if a form is long and has to be on a single page fieldset is a good way to group logically.  Super important for good readability and especially accessibility. 
> `<legend>` - heads up the fieldset element as a label for the grouped content.  Screen readers will read this FIRST followed by the contents, to help the user understand how they're logically grouped.  Example from MDN: the legend says Fruit Juice Size, then for each child element in the fieldset it says the size.  Fruit Juice small, fruit juice medium, etc.
> `<label>` - Labels are explicitly for labeling or defining form widgets.  You can nest the controls for the form inside of the label tag with an `<input>` tag, allowing you to define things like input type and pre-filled text.  The label tag has a for='name' attribute that explicitly associates the label to the form element being filled.  Also good for readability/accessibility.
> `<input>` - is used to set the type of user input we're creating in the form, be it text box, radio button, check box, etc.  Very important for specifying the type of information you're trying to collect from the user.  i.e. if you want to collect a name you probably don't want a button, you want a fillable text box.
> `<button>` - using the button tag encloses whatever text you put into it as a button. Buttons are very common ways to interact with a website, and users have been trained to especially look for them at the end of the form to submit.

- How would you describe events to a non-technical friend?

> Events are things that happen in the system that the computer needs to respond to.  They're kind of like how in Peewee's Playhouse EVERYTHING is an animate object.  When something in the house happens, everyone knows to react to it.  The magic word is the event listener, the event handler is the action that happens in response.

- When using the addEventListener() method, what 2 arguments will you need to provide?

> The name of the event and the code to run in response.

- Describe the event object. Why is the target within the event object useful?

> The target allows the event handler to get very specific with what fires off its action.

- What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?

> Bubbling is how an event in a sub sub element can 'bubble up' to fire off the event listeners on each parent element if applicable.  Event capturing is the same in reverse, going for least nested and on to more nested elements.

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

We're looking at **JavaScript Events** today.  A lot of the common interactivity that you're used to experiencing on a website is tied to events.  Events - broadly speaking - are code that runs **in response to user input.**  Events happen when they are **fired,** or **raised.**  There's a ton of different user initiated events, including:

- click
- submit
- on change
- on page load
- on mouse over
- on key release

Events work kind of like conditionals do, or Flags did back in the NeverWinter Nights days.  An **Event Listener** is code that is triggered when an event is fired.  **Bind** or **tether** is what ties the code to run to the listener in the event.  **Event Handler** is the code that actually runs in response to the event.

What we are ***always going to use*** is **DOM level 2 event handlers.**  

If we need an element from te DOM to attach an event to, we need to make a window into the DOM.  To do so, we use either **document.getElementByID** or **document.querySelector.**

There's a bunch of ways to do this, but let's start with the ways you shouldn't.

- **Any event listeners in HTML:** Don't do that!  It will not work consistently, and a lot of the functionality that used to need event listeners in HTML now lives in React.  

- Don't use event listeners in JavaScript that look like this: 
  **button(document.getElementById('button')).onSubmit=handleEvent;**



##### Things I want to know more about

- 