# Class 11: Audio, Video, Images


#### Assigned Reading Answers


- Explain how the ability to use video and audio on the web has evolved since the early 2000s.

> Back in the beginning there was no native HTML support for A/V with very limited exceptions.  Anything we'd recognize as video came in as a part of proprietary plugins like Silverlight or Flash.  Now using the video and audio tags you can implement some basic videos in your page without much difficulty.  Also important, internet norms have changed with regards to video.  There are exactly zero people who want a video to autoplay anywhere but YouTube.

- Describe the use of the src and controls attributes in the video element.

> src works exactly like it does for images: you point it at the images source.  Controls is a bit more interesting, as it's a tag that adds basic nav/volume controls to your video.  You can link different types of controls by APIs if you need more than the HTML default.

- Why is it important to have fallback content inside the Video element?

> Because if your original content fails to load the last thing you want is your user looking at a blank spot with no recourse.

- Write a very short story where Audio and Video are characters.

> When A and V went to dinner, they didn't anticipate needing to bring along their little child TextTrack.  The sitter cancelled so they made do together.  TextTrack hated when his parents walked too far ahead or too far behind.  A and V walked hand in hand with TextTrack in the center, measuring their paces so they'd all arrive at the restaurant at the same time.

- How does Grid layout differ from Flex?

> Grid works pretty similarly in layout to a table, with column and row, and necessarily area size.  Flexbox is just a great big one directional line.  They're both relatively easy to rearrange.

- Grid container, grid item, and grid line are a few important terms to understand when using Grid. Please describe these terms in a few sentences.

> **Grid container** is the whole grid area, like a table in HTML or excel.  Its area is the sum of its cells, or **grid items.**  The grid items are divided logically and visually by **grid lines.**

- Besides making a site visually appealing across different screen sizes, why should developers make images responsive?

> If you properly use responsive images, you're being prudent with user's bandwidth.  Only the most appropriate image will be loaded based on the user's available screeen size.

- Define the following IMG attributes srcset and sizes. Write an example of how they are used.
How is srcset more helpful for responsive images than CSS or JavaScript?

> Srcset lives a list of multiple image sources to draw on, while Sizes specifices which one shall be used for a given viewing window.  srcset is much better than CSS or JS because it doesn't actually preload any images, so you save the bandwidth.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- Grid and flex seem like they wouldn't play very well in practice, but I imagine we'll see a counter example.