# Class 12: Chart.js, Canvas


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What does the `<canvas>` allow a developer to acheive?

> Canvas lets you make basic 2d drawings on the page with very little code.

- What is the importance of the closing `</canvas>` tag?

> It's required, for one.  You can also put fallback text content in between.

- Explain what the getContext() method does.

> Fetches the content of whatever the user drew for use in the DOM.  I would guess this is how some signature functionality could work.

- What is Chart.js and how it can be brought into your project?

> Chart.js is an open source charting library with broad support and a very active user base.  It lets us create complex charts with JavaScript with relative ease.

- List 3 different Chart types you can create using Chart.js.

> I'll do you 6 better: area, bar, bubble, pie, line, polar, radar, scatter, or a mixed chart type.

- What are some advantages to displaying data via a chart over a table?

> If a table is done the way we have been doing it, it's certainly very laborious.  Chart.js renders to the canvas element, which prevents us from having to use tons of DOM manipulation to render the content.

- How could Chart.js aid your previously created applications visually?

> If I can put a chart into a intuitively sized grid-box, I could probably redo several of the labs in a afternoon with a lot less code, and have it look a lot better.  

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 