# Class 01: Intro to React and Components

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is a “component”?

> A modular and reusable piece of well-defined functionality that has obviously defined inputs/outputs/interface(s).

- What are the characteristics of a component?

> Reusability: components should be reusable in multiple situations, though some are mono-task.
> Replaceable: a component that performs a similar task can be swapped in freely.
> Not context specific: components are built to task, so can be used in different contexts.
> Extensible: you can extend a component from existing components to add more functionality.
> Encapsulated: the user doesn't see under the hood necessarily. The component depicts interfaces which the user can call on, but doesn't reveal its internal processes.
> Independent: components should be minimally dependant - if at all - on other components.

- What are the advantages of using component-based architecture?

> Ease of deployment: it's easier to upgrade existing components than build everything you need from scratch.
> Reduced cost: not doing everything in house can save you money and time during implementation.
> Ease of development: using off the shelf products for specific solutions in your code is a lot easier than doing it all from scratch.
> Reusable: your components can be used wherever appropriate, once you have them.
> Modification of technical complexity: the reading says this, but I don't know what it means. A component modifies the complexity through the use of a component container and its services.
> Reliability: using a known good part in any system allows it to become more reliable.
> System maintenance and evolution: Everyone likes easy updates.
> Independent: it's easier to implement changes if one team or group is responsible for all the changes to the codebase.  

- What is “props” short for?

> Properties

- How are props used in React?

> For passing data from one component to another.

- What is the flow of props?

> Unidirectional, from parent to child.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- WTF does this mean?
> Depend on abstractions component do not depend on other concrete components, which increase difficulty in expendability.

- And also this:
> Modification of technical complexity: A component modifies the complexity through the use of a component container and its services.