# Class 02: React and Props

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?

> Render.

- What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?

> Constructor is declared in the Mounting phase.

- Put the following things in the order that they happen: componentDidMount, render, constructor, componentWillUnmount, React Updates

> Constructor, render, componentDidMount, React Updates, componentWillUnmount

- What does componentDidMount do?

> After a component is mounted, this method is invoked.  Anything that's needed AFTER the component is loaded can be appended here.

- What types of things can you pass in the props?

> Like arguments in a regular function, you can pass whatever you need to pass for the component to run.

- What is the big difference between props and state?

> Props are passed into a component, while state is handled inside of the component.

- When do we re-render our application?

> When state is changed inside the component, or a prop being passed into the component is changed.

- What are some examples of things that we could store in state?

> State is for rerendering the application based on something the user has done.  It can be a place to store changes the user has made that get held onto when the component is rerendered.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- I think I understand state as a 'point in time' snapshot of a component, similar to a save state in a emulated video game.  I suspect this is an oversimplification.