# Class 03: Passing Functions as Props

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What does .map() return?

> A new array of the same length as what you fed into it with whatever function you used applied to every element.

- If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how do I do that in React?

> arr.map(value) => {value}

- Each list item needs a unique ____.

> Key

- What is the purpose of a key?

> To help React identify when items have been changed in an array.

- What is the spread operator?

> Ellipses dots ... that expand an iterable object into a list of arguments.

- List 4 things that the spread operator can do.

> Copy arrays, concat/combine arrays, use Math, add to state in React

- Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays.

> const mergedArray = [...arrayOne,...arrayTwo]

- Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array.

> const dumbStuff = ['dumb1','dumb2','dumb3']
> const moreDumbStuff = ['dumb4','dumb5',...dumbStuff]

- Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one.

> From the reading:
<!-- const objectOne = {hello: "ðŸ¤ª"}
const objectTwo = {world: "ðŸ»"}
const objectThree = {...objectOne, ...objectTwo, laugh: "ðŸ˜‚"}
console.log(objectThree) // Object { hello: "ðŸ¤ª", world: "ðŸ»", laugh: "ðŸ˜‚" }
const objectFour = {...objectOne, ...objectTwo, laugh: () => {console.log("ðŸ˜‚".repeat(5))}}
objectFour.laugh() // ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ -->

- In the video, what is the first step that the developer does to pass functions between components?

> Create an increment function immediately after the state he wants to change.

- In your own words, what does the increment function do?

> Increments up specific values in given objects up by specified increments.

- How can you pass a method from a parent component into a child component?

> Passing it with a props method.

- How does the child component invoke a method that was passed to it from a parent component?

> By calling a method that exists on the parent object.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 