# Class 04: React and Forms

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is a ‘Controlled Component’?

> A combo of how React normally handles an object's state property and the way form elements maintain their own state.  A input form element whose value is controlled by React based on user input is a controlled component.

- Should we wait to store the users responses from the form into state when they submit the form OR should we update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them? Why.

> State is updated while the user types, because handleChange/onChange runs on every keystroke. I don't understand why I would or would not desire this.

- How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field?

> By adding a name attribute to each element and letting the event handler choose what to do based on the event.target.name values.

- Why would we use a ternary operator?

> To reduce binary true/false yes/no type if condition statements to a single, more readable line of code.

- Rewrite the following statement using a ternary statement:

- if(x===y){
  console.log(true);
} else {
  console.log(false);
}

> x===y ? console.log(true) : console.log(false);


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- Lecture @ 1025: forms in React.

- Lecture @ 1032: using the map function to render list components

- Lecture @ 1038: building the form with labels and buttons and the like

- Lecture @ 1114: adding bootstrap form onSubmit logic to App.js

- Lecture @ 1120: proper syntax/wrapping for form elements

- Lecture @ 1125: Form.Group explained

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 