# Class 05: Putting it all together

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

> A component should do one thing well, and if it starts to grow in scope it should be broken into smaller compmonents.

- What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

> To build a version without interactivity for testing/proof of life.

- Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

> Start adding interactivity for testing with state.

- What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

> Is it passed in with props? No=state.
> Does it remain unchanged over time? No=state
> Can you compute it based on other state or props in the componenet? No=state.

- How can you identify where state needs to live?

> Looking for the common owner or another higher up component from the state should be where the state lives.

- What is a “higher-order function”?

> Functions that operate on other functions, either by using them as arguments or returning them, is a higher-order function.  Like higher order animals that consume other animals.

- Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

> Running a function for returning values of m that are higher than n.

- Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.

> Map works by applying a function to all elements in an array and returning a new array with the processed values.  If an array contains functions then I would think using map would qualify as a higher order function.

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 