# Class 07: REST

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Who is Roy Fielding?

> One of the first developers of the HTTP.

- Why don’t the techniques that we use in this class work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world?

> Because most of them were intended to talk to small groups of machines, so universal access was not a key design feature.

- What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created?

> The Hyper Text Transfer Protocol is a universal language for machines to handle nouns more like humans handle nouns.

- What does a GET do?

> Retrieves data in many, many different ways.  

- What does a POST do?

> Adds data from one system to another.

- What does PUT do?

> Replaces data.

- What does PATCH do?

> Partially updates data.


I also got all my API keys except the Weather one.  That one I'm getting signup errors.

#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 1015 - String Array descriptions for the code challenge.

- 1027 - Server repo creation.

- 1030 - Name your server server.js for god's sake!

- 1036 - Setting up gitignore.

- 1038 - Setting up server.js.

- 1039 - Package install for the server. 

- 1040 - npm install express, followed by server required variables.  Servers use 'require' to use 'express.'  

- 1044 - setting up .env file.

- 1046 - installing dotenv (npm install dotenv) for the server

- 1048 - setting up the PORT 

- 1049 - set up the LISTEN to start the server.

- 1052 - nodemonitor (nodemon) runs in the console to get around the not-restarting-the-server dickery.

- 1059 - recording restarted after mess up.

- 1059 - npx kill-port 'portnumber' will kill the process connecting to the port, if things are being interfered with

- 1113 - Setting up routes for data.

- 1117 - setting up the app.get('/', (request, response)) function to establish default data route, what request and what response to pass 

- 1120 - setting up the conditional app.get statements, that aren't really conditional logic but kind of act like it

- 1124 - looking at how the request/response works on the server

- 1126 - sending pair value requests to the server

- 1131 - setting up data.json for the server, probably called something else

- 1135 - using the FIND method to query an array in the data.json file.

- 1137 - data.find will find and return ONLY the first result that matches the query parameter.

- 1141 - Class creation for querying specific parameters within th json file.  I don't really understand this part that well.  The idea is to filter the data of the object you're pulling in the query down to a useful level.

- 1144 - using Render to deploy a server.  Similar to the Netlify process.

- 1146 - configuring Render to host your server

- 1148 - setting up try/catch error checking for the server

- 1150 - setting up the error messages themselves

- 1152 - configuring the server to work on the front end

- 1154 - using axios to handle the form input when talking to the server we made.

- 1156 - setting up .env in React to target the server:  REACT_APP_SERVER=`<serverURL>`

- 1200 - setting up data values for the query handler.

- 1202 - installing cors, for some reason?  I don't know what cors is for.

- 1205 - setting up state in the query handler, crucial for getting data from the server into our React app.

- 1209 - updating Netlify with our environmental variables so we can deploy this mudder fluffer

- 1211 - properly setting up the deploy value requires removing the end slash or you're boned

- 1213 - taking a look at the lab itself for today

- 1214 - finding the weather.json file in the trello board

- 1215 - do NOT use lat/lon as part of the query.  Just straight up don't include it

- 1217 - extracting specific data from the .json file

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 