# Class 08: APIs

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What does REST stand for?

> Representational state transfer.

- REST APIs are designed around a ____.

> Resources, i.e. any object or data accessible to a client.

- What is an identifier of a resource? Give an example.

> a URL, or a unique identifier for the resource being fetched.

- What are the most common HTTP verbs?

> GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE

- What should the URIs be based on?

> Nouns - that is, the resource - not verbs, like PUT or GET.

- Give an example of a good URI.

> https://penny-arcade.com/comics

- What does it mean to have a ‘chatty’ web API? Is this a good or a bad thing?

> A API that makes a lot of all requests to get all the data it needs.  It's not good because it takes up more resources and bandwidth.

- What status code does a successful GET request return?

> 200 OK

- What status code does an unsuccessful GET request return?

> Quoth the server, "404"

- What status code does a successful POST request return?

> 201 Created

- What status code does a successful DELETE request return?

> 204 No Content


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 0925 - Code challenge / regex initial review.

- 0930 - how to declare regex with proper syntax, using //.  It goes between the //.

- 1007 - code review, refactoring lab07

- 1100 - setting up API requests

- 1105 - connecting with Unsplash API

- 1120 - setting up AXIOS for the server

- 1138 - connecting our server on Render

- 1143 - connecting Render server to Netlify front end site

- 1146 - Lab 08 requirements explained

- 


##### Things I want to know more about

- 