# Class 10: In memory storage

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is a ‘call’?

> The invocation of a function.

- How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?

> One.

- What does LIFO mean?

> Last in, first out.

- Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.

> function x2() {
  x1();
  return 'string' + x2;
}

- What causes a Stack Overflow?

> When a recursive function is called with no exit point from the call stack.

- What is a ‘reference error’?

> Using an undeclared variable.

- What is a ‘syntax error’?

> Misusing syntax in JavaScript so it can't be parsed correctly.

- What is a ‘range error’?

> Manipulating an array with the wrong length on your methods or omitting length at all.

- What is a ‘type error’?

> When you associate the wrong data type with your functions on either end, like expecting a string and getting a boolean.

- What is a breakpoint?

> A 'stop' in your code that can be used to log what happened immediately before it, for purposes of debugging.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 0946 - beginning of code review w/ Thomas Lau's repo.

- 0951 - setting up API keys in the .env files

- 0957 - modules for movie/weather data in the code review

- 1027 - code challenge overview

- 1030 - for in loop

- 1035 - for of vs for in

- 1036 - start of lab breakdown

- 1037 - explanation of cache use

- 1042 - actually adding cache

- let cache = {};

- 1045 - creating properties on the cache with if else logic

- 1057 - testing our cache with console.log

- 1101 - date checking logic

- 1130 - plan for next week

- 1139 - 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 