# Class 11: MongoDB and Mongoose

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

> SQL vs NoSQL
 	 - SQL is relational, NoSQL is non-relational
   - SQL is table based, NoSQL doesn't have a standard schema.
   - SQL is vertically scalable, NoSQL is horizontally scalable
   - SQL uses structured query language to work with the data, while NoSQL uses UnQL to relate collections of documents. 
   - SQL is a good fit for complex queries, NoSQL is not (NoSQL doesn't have standard interfaces/tabular data format)

- What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

> Non-hierarchical data.

- Give a real world example.

> A collection of demographic info, like names and addresses.

- What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?

> Hierarchical data.

- Give a real world example.

> IBM's Information Management System, per Wikipedia.

- Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?

> A NoSQL database.

- Which type of database is best for scalability?

> Depends on how you want to spend your money.  SQL is vertically scalable, requiring heavier duty server components to add processing power.  NoSQL is horizontally scalable, requiring more server environments overall.

- What does SQL stand for?

> Structured Query Language.

- What is a relational database?

> A DB where information is collected and sorted into predefined relationships where data is stored in one or more tables of columns and rows.

- What type of structure does a relational database work with?

> Tabular data

- What is a ‘schema’?

> The way in which data is organized in a relational database.  It's the basic 'rules' for how data is organized.

- What is a NoSQL database?

> A distributed, non-relational database organized on a non-standard schema.

- How does it work?

> A combination of key value pairs, document relationships, graph values, wide columns, other terms I don't understand, and - I assume - voodoo.

- What is inside of a MongoDB database?

> Collections and Documents, i.e. key value pairs

- Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.

> MongoDB, because it allows storage of unstructured data while still providing indexing support.

- What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?

> NoSQL DBs are not optimized for reducing data duplicity, but this is a minor drawback with cheap storage.  They DON'T use a standard schema, which means there can often be more exceptions to deal with than rules, so it can be difficult to structurally manage a NoSQL database. 


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 0912 - Review of Code Challenge 10

- 0930 - Beginning of code review for lab 10, Ryan Bagan's lab

- 0941 - Looking at start of Ryan's code.  Holy crap his site looks good.

- 0948 - linking URL to search string with lat/lon and API key from weatherbit

- 1015 - connections between server, cache and data

- 1025 - moving on to Can o' Books module.

- 1028 - Non-relational databases, i.e. JSON data made up of unrelated data

- 1031 - ODM: object document mapping, i.e. a way to create data models with specific schema

- Schema is like the top of a table in a database

- 1032 - Using Mongoose (a ODM) to handle the interactivity in our database.  

- 1033 - So why use a nonrelational database?  Because we can do all of it in JavaScript.

- 1037 - Collections are where your DBs are on MongoDB.

- 1039 - WRRC for MongoDB relationship a la HornedBeasts.

- 1048 - connecting a MongoDB to a local server we run.

- 1050 - setting up DB_URL in the .env file

- 1057 - Mongoose set up w/ server.js

- const mongoose = require('mongoose);

- followed by the Mongoose documentation copypasta:

> // add validation to confirm we are wired up to our mongo DB
const db = mongoose.connection;
db.on('error', console.error.bind(console, 'connection error:'));
db.once('open', function () {
  console.log('Mongoose is connected');
});

- 1110 - importing/requiring models from the DB

- 1119 - configuring the cat.js model

- 1121 - using object deconstruction to break down the data as it comes from Mongoose and pass it through to the schema we're setting up

- 1123 - using the schema to create the DB model

- 1126 - creating the seed.js file.  Seed.js is intended as 'starter' data, basically for proof of life

- 1131 - if we want to send data from the front end to be added to the DB, how do we pull that off?  We want to make sure it conforms to the schema

- 1134 - setting up seed data and concluding with mongoose.disconnect in order to terminate connection once it's done with the seed function

- 1139 - running the seed data 'node seed.js'

- 1141 - Getting the cat data to render on the front end

- CRUD: Create, Read, Update, Delete.  A fully functional database needs these abilities to be whole.

- REST: REpresentational State Transfer still is important.  GET and POST will be used by us.

- 1143 - Routes setup.

- 1146 - Mongoose documentation for retrieving data from the DB via query

- 1147 - Model.find documentation

- 1152 - Representing mongoose data on the front end

- 1157 - running the initial GET on page load with componentDidMount(){}

- componentDidMount ensures that when a site loads it has all the data it needs to display for the initial run

- 1207 - Lab 11 Trello Board

- 1211 - Template review

- 1215 - Group agreement before you start coding

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 