# Class 12: CRUD

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

> 100’s = Informational status codes.  They may not indicate an error, but communicate at least that the header of the request has been received by the server.
> 200’s = Success codes.  They may not imply that the request was successful the way a user would understand it, but they at least communicate that the request has been received and passed validation.
> 300’s = Redirection codes.  The requested resource isn't where the server expects it to be, and the request may be shunted to a new location.
> 400’s = Client error codes.  These indicate something is wrong on the client side, like a bad URL or authentication.
> 500’s = Server error codes.  These indicate something is wrong on the server side, like the server being unreachable.

- What is a status code 202?

> Accepted: used for asynchronous processing of a request.

- What is a status code 308?

> Permanent redirect, meaning the resource has been permanently relocated to another domain or URL, and that the client should change their bookmark or reference.  Also, it is fun but moderately expensive ammo.

- What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

> 204 No Content

- What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

> 410 Gone

- What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

> 403 Forbidden

- Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?

> Because the pw string is relatively easy for bad actors to expose and access.

- What is middleware?

> Third party software you didn't write that your code needs in order to function. Express and CORS are both examples we're using lately.

- What does app.use(express.json()) do?

> Adds the Express middleware to your app.

- What does the /:id mean in a route?

> : implies a parameter is next, and id is the identifier for the param

- What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?

> PUT updates all the information all at once, PATCH only updates what got passed in.

- How do you make a default value in a schema?

> By appending the key value pair with 'required: true'

- What does a 500 error status code mean?

> Internal Server Error.

- What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?

> Status 200 is the basic 'everything worked' response, while 201 is the Created response, signalling that backend resource creation has occurred.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes

- 0934 - Code Challenge 11 review

- 1001 - Lab 11 code review begins

- 1004 - setting up .env

- 1034 - brief touch on code challenge 12

- 1037 - CRUD operations in Mongoose

- 1046 - lab 12 new material, we're looking to componentize our front end

- 1113 - implementing additional CRUD abilities in our DB

- 1115 - creating a handler for our back end to add cats and/or books

- 1120 - sending a whole object via the async req function.

- 1123 - setting up a POST request 

- 1125 - setting up app.use(express.json()) in order to receive JSON data from a request.

- 1128 - actually POSTing data

- 1130 - adding .delete functionality route

- app.delete('cats/:id', deleteCats)  // then do the handler deleteCats

- async function deleteCats(req, res, next) {
  try {
    // scaffolding for the delete function
    let id = req.params.id;  // targets anything after the initial id:
  } catch(err) {
    next(err);
  }
}

- 

##### Things I want to know more about

- 