# Class 15: Authentication

### Code review, lecture and reading notes


#### Assigned Reading Answers

- What is OAuth?

> An open standard authorization framework that allows unrelated servers authenticated access to their assets without sharing the initial related sign on.

- Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.

> You sign on to one website's services using another websites credentials.  Going anywhere that isn't Github and being presented with the option to sign in using your Github credentials, for example.

- How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?

> 0Auth uses a client and two 0Auth supported services to authenticate.  From the reading:
The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.
The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.
The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.
The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).
If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.
The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.
The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).
The user gives the approved access token to the first website.
The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.
The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.
The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.

- What is OpenID?

> A means for users to use SSO to access multiple sites rather than using multiple credentials across those sites.

- What is the difference between authorization and authentication?

> Authorization is 'do you have permission to be here' and authentication is 'are you who you say you are?'

- What is Authorization Code Flow?

> The exchange of an Authorization Code for a token to permit access to requested data.  From the reading:
The user clicks Login within the regular web application.

Auth0's SDK redirects the user to the Auth0 Authorization Server (
/authorize
endpoint).

Your Auth0 Authorization Server redirects the user to the login and authorization prompt.

The user authenticates using one of the configured login options and may see a consent page listing the permissions Auth0 will give to the regular web application.

Your Auth0 Authorization Server redirects the user back to the application with an authorization code, which is good for one use.

Auth0's SDK sends this code to the Auth0 Authorization Server (
/oauth/token
endpoint) along with the application's Client ID and Client Secret.

Your Auth0 Authorization Server verifies the code, Client ID, and Client Secret.

Your Auth0 Authorization Server responds with an ID Token and Access Token (and optionally, a Refresh Token).

Your application can use the Access Token to call an API to access information about the user.

The API responds with requested data.

- What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?

> An enhanced authorization code flow that introduces a 'secret' in addition to the token that must be validated by an authorization server.  Kind of like multifactor authentication but it's all under the hood as far as the user is concerned.

- What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?

> An alternative to Authorization Code Flow for public clients which can't securely store Client Secrets.

- What is Client Credentials Flow?

> A machine to machine versino of the authentication flow, typically used by back end systems.

- What is Device Authorization Flow?

> The part of MFA that results in a user having to go to a link on their computer or mobile device to validate an access request.

- What is Resource Owner Password Flow?

> The old school username and password combo we all know.


#### Code Review, Lecture Notes, Reading notes



##### Things I want to know more about

- 